[Music]
hi
i'm new one but i'm also known as tiny
girl eats world over on instagram where
you can find me sharing the best eats
i've traveled the globe to try food from
different cuisines from the hawker
centres in singapore
to the local food that samoan people eat
there is an amazing world of food out
there but in this series i'm bringing
you the world in your kitchen
[Music]
today we have ernestina ajay joining us
who is a marketing manager for bank by
day but in her spare time is a food
content creator for her instagram etina
so ernestina thank you for joining us
today for having me
and what we're going to be making in the
kitchen so today i'm making my favorite
garden x jew with bold green fontaine
and it's a traditional dish in ghana
and whenever i visit ghana it's one that
my auntie's always made for me so i'm so
excited to share the recipe with you
guys today
great so what we're going to do first to
make this dish so first i'm going to
slice
one onion and just because garden eggs
aren't the most common
ingredient around you i'm explaining
what they are yes so
garden eggs is actually a type of
eggplant and it's indigenous to west
africa so you'll
mainly find it in tropical countries
like west africa
sub-saharan africa or south america okay
tell me a bit more about your your
connection to ghana did you grow up
there
so my parents were from ghana and i was
actually born in
the netherlands okay so i lived there
till i was around
eight years old and i moved to london um
but my parents have always cooked
ghanaian food we speak the language at
home so i feel like i've always been in
touch with my culture
so i actually traveled back to ghana in
2017 with my friends for christmas and
it was an amazing experience honestly
it's just such a nice and friendly
relaxed environment
and the weather's amazing the food is
amazing i think more and more people are
starting to visit ghana as well now
which is really good and before it
wasn't like a top
holiday destination but now especially
at christmas you'll find a lot of people
from
all over the world that are visiting
ghana now which is really interesting we
have the lovely beaches so i just love
it
ghana just has so much to offer and from
all of the
um cultural landmarks as well so it's
definitely somewhere where i would say
people need to go and visit sounds
amazing so tell me more about the
landmarks you visited when you went to
ghana and which ones really stood out to
you
so i would say cape coast castle because
it's known for the slave trade ports
and it was really it was a really
emotional day
because we learned more about the slaves
in ghana and their journey from ghana
to the western world and to the
caribbean
and i think i cried like a few times
when i was there because
there were hundreds of slaves that were
put into one room waiting to be
shipped across the country so i can
imagine that was quite you know
very in a way almost empowering for you
to go back and visit and learn about
your culture and really add to
what your identity is a as a ghanaian
woman
exactly um yeah it was it was really
good
to see that and just to see um meet
people that had come
from america or different parts of the
world because they'd done a dna test
that traced their roots back to
ghana so a lot of them have come back
there to learn more about the journey
that their families took so i can see
you brought along this interesting
looking plot
so yeah could you um tell me what it is
yes so this is in the sangka pop
and this is what we call the tapali
which is what you use to grind
and it's actually become one of my
favorite pots because
some people call me asanka tea because
i'm always using this
for my recipes and it's it's an earth
wear clay pop that you use to grind
ingredients
so it saves you from using a blender per
se and adding water to that to make it a
bit watery
or save you from using a food processor
which might not get it to the
consistency that you want
and i will get you to do some grinding
as well
so we can get some lessons in okay what
you do
you can grind anything in here from
ginger to scotch bonnet to
onions what you name it you can if it
can go in a blender
it can go in the sandpaper in the pot
yeah so what i've done is i've added in
the diced onions
and this is the base of the garden next
juice i'm now going to grind this
towards the consistency that i'm happy
with
so as you can see it's wrist and arm
movement
okay is it more like you're just rolling
it around you break it down
but because it's got red but the pot has
ridges in it which helps with the
grinding process
yeah do you want to have a go
yes please can't promise i'll be good
let's see
okay thank you so you just grab the top
of the
top and yeah it's like wrist and arm
movement
so you're kind of also bringing it back
and forth oh dear
all i need to do is find the
concentrated area of onion
yeah yeah there and then just leave your
arm in one place for now and just use
your wrist
just use it we may never eat if it goes
on with you doing like this
but not bad for a first try yeah have
you ever actually taught other people to
do this
yes so i actually um launched my cooking
classes in 2019
okay and i brought these pots down and
it was just hilarious trying to
teach people how to do it because you
just need a few practices
and then you'll get the arm and wrist
movement i feel like food tastes nicer
when you
um grind the ingredients in the
sandpaper definitely
and this is the kind of thing that gets
passed down if you have pots in your
family
yeah yeah so this pot is actually my
mom's
and whenever she goes back to ghana she
buys some and brings it over um for me
and everyone in the family owns owns a
pot or two we also use it to serve food
however so once you've finished the food
you serve it into the sangka pot
so i think if we ever want to eat and
any of this garden next year i might
have to give it back to you today
don't worry so what i'm going to do now
is add the scotch bonnets
into the asanka pot and grind it along
with them
okay so leaving the garden egg behind
yep so i'm gonna leave the garden eggs
behind for now
and then when i do start on the garden
eggs i'll add a few in at a time
but the key thing with grinding anything
in a sangha pot is to add a little bit
at a time you don't want to overwhelm
yourself and then you've got so much in
the pot
[Music]
so we're done mashing yeah and we're
moving on to the plantation
yes the exciting part so we're just
cutting them
open so what i'm doing now is just
cutting each end
and then i'm going to peel the skin off
so i find it easier
to cut the top and the tail off i also
find it easier to use a bread knife
because of the ridges
so that's just a tip for when you're
using this for your green plantain
now it's a really good tip yeah the
serrated edges just help get that tough
skin of it it sinks into the skin
yeah is it a dish that's eaten very
often or is it more reserved for special
occasions
it's eaten very often so it's something
that maybe if you're going to visit an
auntie or an
uncle they would prepare that ahead of
you arriving there
um it's eaten for lunch dinner on
weekends
[Applause]
yeah any time really and so now that
i've peeled off the plantain skin
i'm just going to scrape it and then cut
it into three pieces
so that it's easier for boiling so i've
never been to ghana myself and i don't
know why
it's definitely on my list yeah i'm
really interested to know some other
places that you visited
yeah when you went there in 2017. yes so
i actually visited kwame nkrumah
memorial park
and carmen cromwell was the president
that led ghana to its independence
on the 6th of march 1957 so we've got a
memorial dedicated to him
and it just talks about his history um
what he did
the ties to the uk where he visited and
just his political influence in ghana
and
just him bringing ghana to independence
so i've got the
plantain now in the pot and i've just
filled the pot with water just to cover
the plantain a little bit
and what i'm going to do now is add the
eggs because we have this with boiled
eggs
now there is a running joke and i know
people are going to say this that
guardians eat everything
with egg literally you'll see a ghanaian
person's plate whether it's rice whether
it's yam potatoes
and there'll be eggs yes we do love eggs
i mean i love eggs too so i'm excited to
eat eggs with this yeah it's so nice
and then the same as the garden eggs
from the point of boil
we leave it for about 12 to 15 minutes
but you do want to also check the
softness for the plantain
i'm going to add some dried salted
tilapia also known as kobe
and because of the salt in that fish
that makes up for um the salt in the
dish so you don't need to add any salt
yeah just the fish will do the trick and
whilst that's cooking away what are the
next steps that we're going to do
so next i'm actually going to mash the
garden eggs in the asankapo so what i'll
do
is just continue to add the rest of the
garden eggs into the pot and continue to
grind
and i'd really love to hear a little bit
more about the languages of ghana
oh yeah so i um speak tree
which is um one of the main languages
spoken in ghana
my parents are from kumasi so that would
be the dialect the language that is
spoken
in ghana's eye speechy there's also many
other languages spoken in ghana there's
gar
there's erwer hausa fanti
you name it there's so many languages
that are spoken in ghana
yeah and not forgetting english as well
so you added the fish for that salty
element as well to the water
yes i did and what are we going to do
next so i've added
in the kobe which is a salted tilapia
and what i'm going to do is start the
stew so i've got my red palm fruit and
rapeseed oil here typically in ghana we
use a palm oil a traditional palm oil
but here i've got the rapeseed and red
palm fruit so i'm just going to
go ahead and add half a cup
of the oil in here whilst you're doing
that i was really intrigued when you
were mentioning
um that you speak tree yeah are there
any common phrases that you could share
with yes
definitely so common phrases acuava
which means welcoming tree when you land
at the airport you will see signage that
says the kwaba which means welcome
and it's on a lot of material in
people's homes
a lot of photos a lot of the collateral
in ghana so that is the common phrase
that's really lovely and i know you've
talked to groups of people before
yeah is that something you're looking to
do in the future as well yeah so i
actually launched my
cooking classes in 2019 where
i'd have typically between 12 to 15
people a class
and teach a specific dish um to people
but no it's been it's been a really good
experience i do love the element of
teaching people how to cook
and just showing off my recipes so here
the um
money fish which is the fermented fish
is now frying
so typically it fries for about three to
five minutes okay
and then i'll transfer that into the
asanka bowl and grind it into the garden
egg
mixture and the smell is really coming
out even more yeah
it is lovely so now i'm gonna add
the peanut butter into the garden egg
mixture i just added in the
fermented fish and just watch out for
little bones that may be in it so you
can pluck them out
and are we adding that to the pot now
yes so i'm going to add that to the
frying pan
with the oil and the onions and then mix
that all together
once that's been in there for about two
minutes i'll add the sardines in
mix it around a bit so after 15 minutes
of boiling
i've dispersed off the water that was in
the pot and then plated the kobe
on the side and then filled the pot with
cold water and what does that do to the
plantain if you do that
it just stops it from drying out so this
mix will fry for about
three to five minutes because we've
cooked the garden eggs everything that's
in here has been cooked
so we're ready to plate this yeah and do
you mind explaining the different
components that
go into this dish when we're plating up
yes sure but what i like to do is put in
the garden next you and then kind of
build around it so then add the green
plantain
add the boiled eggs add the salted
tilapia
and the avocado so that's typically how
i would do it
and in ghana how do people typically eat
this
once this has been dished into the
asanka um
bowl because it's quite a large bowl so
it allows for sharing
and serve just hold like that yep hold
like that
first come first serve grab your egg
this avocado is something that's
typically served with a lot of ghanaian
dishes
i always say that ghanians add random
things sometimes
that you wouldn't expect and avocado is
one of them
this looks absolutely stunning thank you
so much i love you
yeah i love seeing all these different
layers especially that vibrant green
color from the avocado itself
and i really just want to tuck it into
this right now thank you let's just eat
now yeah
that's so good oh thank you is it like
anything you've ever tasted
nothing like i've ever tasted before i
can actually really taste the peanut
butter through it
and it's really lovely and salty from a
bit of fish yeah the avocado good
bit of creaminess it's so good
so i'm glad you like it thank you so
much for trying it i really appreciate
[Music]
it